# HNG backend track stage 2 documentation
# Person API
This API provides CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) operations for managing a "person" resource. It allows you to create, retrieve, update, and delete person records in a MongoDB database.  It is designed to be flexible and capable of handling dynamic inputs. All interactions with the API should follow the specified request and response formats.


# Setup instructions
- Node.js and npm installed on your system
- MongoDB installed and running
- Postman or a similar tool for API testing.

# Installation
- Clone the repository
```https://github.com/nireayoo/HNG_stage_two.git```
- Create a .env file in the project root and specify your MongoDB connection string:
```mongodb+srv://<username>:<password>@cluster0.we0x91f.mongodb.net/``` 
- Install the dependencies using: ```npm install```

# Starting server
To start the API we run ```npm start```

The API will be available at ```http://localhost/5005```

## API endpoints
- GET /api : Retrieves all persons from the database.
- GET /api/:user_id : Retrieves a person by their ID.
- POST /api : Creates a new person.
- PUT /api/:user_id : Updates a person by their ID.
- DELETE /api/:user_id : Deletes a person by their ID

# Adding a Person
- Endpoint: /api
- HTTP Method: POST
- Request Body:
```{
    "name": "Mark Essien"
}
```
- Response:
```
{
        "_id": "<user_id>",
        "name": "Mark Essien",
        "createdAt": "2023-09-13T08:35:59.735Z",
        "updatedAt": "2023-09-13T12:06:32.914Z",
        "__v": 0
}
```

# Fetching a person
- Endpoint: /api/user_id
- HTTP Method: GET
- Response:
```{ 
  "name": "Mark Essien",
}
```

# Update a Person
- Endpoint: /api/user_id
- HTTP Method: PUT
- Request Body:
```{
    "name": "Updated name"
}
```
- Response:
```
{
        "_id": "<user_id>",
        "name": "Updated name",
        "createdAt": "2023-09-13T08:35:59.735Z",
        "updatedAt": "2023-09-13T12:06:32.914Z",
        "__v": 0
}
```

# Remove a Person
- Endpoint: /api/user_id
- HTTP Method: DELETE
- Response:
```{
  "message: "person deleted successfully!"
  }
  ```


## Assumptions
-This API assumes that each person has a unique identifier (id) that is automatically generated by mongoDB when a person is created.

- Input validation(using express validator) is performed for the name field to ensure it's a string. Other fields or additional validation rules can be added as needed.

- Request and response headers are to be written in json format.

## Author
Seminire Adebiyi (https://github.com/nireayoo)

## License

This project is open source and available under the [MIT License](LICENSE).
